A big advantage that object oriented cold gives us is inheritance.
Inheritance is simply a way of reusing code and avoiding repetition.
Let's look at an example.
Here we have an Item class that could represent items for sale on an e-commerce site for example.
The class has one public property name and one public method.
This method returns a string containing the description of the item for a listing page at the moment.
This just returns the name of the item in our test script.
We're requiring the file where the class is defined creating a new object of that class setting the
property and finally calling the method echoing out its result
when we run this cold in the browser.
We see the result of calling the method.
This class could represent generic items for sale on the e-commerce site.
The site might also sell books however.
So let's create a book class for those kalid book.
Just like a generic item a book will have a name property along with an additional author property and
we need to get a listing description method.
Just like the Item class in our test script.
First let's require this file then create a new book object assign some values to its properties and
echo out the result of calling the method again and just so that the results are on different lines
when we run the code in the browser.
Let's add a line break element between the method calls like that
in the browser.
In addition to the description we had before we now have the description of the book object.
We've duplicated a lot of cold here though.
The book class would seem to be a more specialized version of an item only adding the Arthur property.
This is where we can use inheritance to remove this duplicated code.
Let's change the book class so that it extends the Item class.
We do this by putting extends after the class name followed by the name of the class we are extending.
When one class extends another all of the properties and methods of the class being extended are inherited
by the class that's extending it.
So as the name property and the get listing description method in the Item class are the same.
We can remove them from the book class now like that.
We can still set the values of these properties and call the method as these are inherited from the
Item class.
And when we run the code the result is the same as before the Item class.
The class being extended is referred to as the parent class and the book class is referred to as the
Child class.
The book class has inherited all the properties and methods of the parent Item class.
But we've extended this class by adding an additional Arthur property.